Fyodor!
To me.
- Are you deaf?
Lower.
Serve!
Get it. get it!
Come on.
- What was that...?
Do it.
Serve.
- C'mon!
Hit it harder!
Oops!
- Oh!
Shit!
Fyodor!
Hold onto me.
- Stay like that.
Fuck!
Walk like that. Go on.
- Come on.
Legs on his shoulders?
One. two...
- You're gonna have the same...
problem.
- Do it! Do it!
One more.
- Where is that idiot?
Do it!
Here. come here.
Eat this.
Take this.
Eat up.
Good boy!
Captain. he did it again.
Who?
- Vozdvizhensky.
He just pinched me again
in the hallway.
A dirty pinch.
Fyodor. I've been a member
of the Party since 1918.
My late husband fought at Perekop.
I have tuberculosis! I deserve
better housing. I've waited 5 years!
And now some partyless scum
thinks he can treat me like that.
I don't deserve this. Fyodor!
Good morning. Captain.
Go on. keep eating.
Dismissed... for now.
LONG LIVE THE AIR FORCE
Tomorrow.
an aerostat will fly over Leningrad.
The flight is timed to coincide with
the issue of government bonds for 1938.
This government loan
is already being called historical.
It's devoted to the new 5-year plan.
and marks its beginning.
Bonds can be bought in all major cities
Major Gvozdev!
Starting next week.
- Open up!
Buy government bonds
for the third 5-year plan.
Do you hear me?
That's an order!
Now stand by
for the exact time signals.
The 6th signal indicates 8 a.m.
The time in Leningrad is 8...
He jumped on his own.
It can't be.
But why?
He was so young.
Move along. citizens.
- Don't push us.
Volkonogov.
The captain graces us
with his presence.
Hi. Fyodor.
Good morning.
Why are you so gloomy?
Not enough sleep?
Want some good news?
The major said
there's no staff meeting today.
When?
He stopped by 10 minutes ago.
Artamonov.
- Here.
Head to re-evaluation.
Re-evaluation?
Orders from the top.
Valyulin. to re-evaluation.
Hey. lieutenant.
Did Artamonov pass?
Swine.
Bet I can beat your record.
Forty.
You can't.
- I can. Wanna bet?
How much?
- Three rubles.
Alright.
Fyodor. you're the witness.
OK.
Bogdanchik.
To re-evaluation.
Hey. Fyodor.
Got something to tell you.
This weekend. I was at
Tavricheskiy Park and I met this girl.
I was in my civvies.
so I didn't tell her who I was.
Said I worked at a factory.
Eventually. I take her to my place.
I had some wine left to finish.
so we sit for a while.
We start kissing...
and I get her into bed.
So. she's almost naked.
and then she...
just stops. pulls away from me
and says.
"I can't do this. I'm scared."
"Scared? Why?" I ask.
"Am I your first?"
"No. you're not." she says.
"Am I that ugly?" I ask.
"No. you're alright.
I don't know why. I just
feel scared and all cold inside."
She saw right through you. Kiddo.
You shouldn't have played a civilian.
Is my job written on my face
or something?
No. but a broad can always
smell a wolf.
Going somewhere?
- Taking this file to the archive.
Gonna stop by the canteen?
- I can.
Will you buy me some juice?
- Sure.
Is it cherry or currant juice today?
It was currant yesterday.
That means cherry today.
I prefer currant juice.
Don't bother. in that case.
Hello.
Hello?
Just left.
I'll sign.
Got to catch him as soon as possible.
This is your headache now.
Why me? The Search team
handles escaped arrestees.
Who are you calling
an escaped arrestee?
Volkonogov? No.
We didn't get to arrest him
nor press any charges.
I signed your promotion order
before he ran.
Valery. your subordinate escaped.
With a service weapon.
Now you must find him.
I'll need men...
You have new subordinates.
A whole department.
They're new. no use in a search!
I'm short on staff.
The arrest schedule is at risk.
Get to work. Major Golovnya.
Are you sick. Valery?
No. it's nothing.
I'm just not used to the climate.
Why are we going so slow?
Hit the gas. Sergeant!
Sit.
So who came to see him most often?
Just his colleagues. sometimes.
Is there a girlfriend?
He never brought anyone here.
Maybe he mentioned someone?
I heard him talking on the phone once.
To a girl named Raya.
Look for any notes.
even just scraps of paper! Got it?
I wanted to ask you something. Major...
I've been a Party member since 1918.
My husband fought at Perekop.
I have tuberculosis.
I deserve better housing.
I've waited 5 years.
As I understand. his room is free now.
Can I take it?
What do you think?
We don't handle that.
Go to the Housing Commission.
Thank you for your help.
Major. I'm innocent.
This is a mistake. I'm not a spy.
Shut your mouth. scum!
- I'm not an enemy!
You're working too slowly.
I'm sorry.
He's a tough one.
I'll break him by evening.
He'll sign anything eagerly.
By this evening...
My. you people here are laid back.
Sing!
What?
Was I not clear. Veretennikov?
Sing!
Sing what?
Something from your amateur choir.
There are a lot of songs.
OK. something new.
How about "The Field"?
Great.
Sing.
Field. oh. field
Go on.
Wide field Oh. field
Heroes ride across the field
Oh. heroes of the Red Army
Tip your head back a bit.
Keep singing.
Girls are crying
Today the girls are downhearted
Were you close to Captain Volkonogov?
Not really.
We worked together. That's all.
Keep singing.
Oh. girls. oh. girls
Oh. girls...
Who is Raya?
Raya who?
- Volkonogov's girlfriend.
I don't know her.
Sing. sing.
- No. I really don't know! I swear!
Wipe your tears. girls
I really don't know.
Keep singing.
I remember now!
Address?
14 Vereyskaya Street.
Apartment 7.
- Thanks.
Fourth...
Fourth floor...
Major...
Can I borrow this?
Make sure to return it.
Fyodor.
Is Raya home?
No one by that name here.
Where is that liar?
It's done.
As soon as you left. I broke him.
Thank you very much.
Where is Veretennikov?
Sent him to a court-martial.
Executed. most likely. It's fast.
Looking for someone?
Will you help me. Raya?
My friend
lives on Farforovskaya Street.
On the outskirts.
When it gets dark.
we'll go there and keep you safe.
I'll go call her
and see when she gets off work.
OK. wait here.
You need to change clothes.
Alright. We arranged it.
What's her name?
Who?
Your friend from Farforovskaya.
Galya.
Fyodor. please relax...
Fyodor. relax. please.
Why did you rat me out?
Who did you call?
Who the fuck did you call?
This is no good. Fyodor.
It's not honest.
Are you going to run forever.
like a criminal?
What if they kill you?
You should turn yourself in.
They'll sort it out.
If you go to prison.
I'll wait for you.
Clear the way!
Did you hear that a zeppelin
is flying over the city tomorrow?
If you live in Russia.
speak Russian.
A dirigible. not a zeppelin.
- How come?
Zeppelin is a German word.
It's "dirigible" in Russian.
You're both wrong.
It's not a zeppelin or a dirigible.
In Russian. it's "aerostat".
Freeze!
Oh. God!
Hey! Stop!
Don't scatter them around like that.
Do it in even rows
or they won't all fit.
Now get in there and fix it.
Bring him over here.
A bit more.
Over here.
What did you stop for?
Get the next one.
Why are you stomping like donkeys?
Haven't you ever done a tap dance?
A tap dance!
Watch how it's done.
Like this! Tap. tap!
Get to it!
Tap. tap. tap!
Tap dance!
Good!
Field. oh. field
Wide field. oh. field
Heroes ride across the field
Oh. heroes of the Red Army
Girls are crying
Today the girls are downhearted
Their dear ones have gone away
Oh. away to the army
Girls are crying
Today the girls are downhearted
The trains are passing by
The planes are flying high
Field. oh. field
Wide field. oh. field
Heroes cross the field
JUICE
Thanks.
Why did you go alone. Fyodor?
You left me behind.
They tortured me. you know.
I signed everything.
And I went straight to hell. Fyodor.
I can't just can't figure out why.
All of our guys are there.
Know what we're doing there?
You're not stupid. Fyodor.
We're suffering.
That's our sentence:
eternal suffering.
Do you know
what eternal suffering is. Captain?
It's like that. all the time.
Until the end of time.
They asked me to give you a message.
That you have a chance
to go to a different place.
Not down there with us.
Under one condition. though.
Before you die. you must repent and
get at least one person to forgive you.
Alright.
I should be going.
See you. Captain.
Stop!
- Stop!
After him!
Faster!
Raise your left hand.
Where is he?
- Where did he go?
Put the gun on the floor!
Stop!
Move it.
Faster.
Last ones. I hope.
Major. sir.
here are all Volkonogov's folders.
Find the missing one and use
the register to see what it contained.
You have one hour.
Major.
how can we do it in one hour?
40 minutes.
Hello.
Elizarova?
And?
I knew your father.
Nikolay Nesterovich.
Everyone knew him. once...
I wonder how they'll look him
in the eye when he comes back.
He won't be back.
They told me I can't send letters.
but I sent him warm socks
and a scarf on Thursday.
Your father was shot last month.
Did you hear me?
I sent him socks and a scarf
on Thursday.
They never tell the relatives.
Those are the rules.
But why did they take the socks...
and the scarf?
I don't know.
You see. Nikolay Nesterovich
didn't want to sign anything.
so he was subjected to...
special methods.
Your father is innocent.
He incriminated himself.
Are you done?
It was a mistake.
So I've come...
to ask for forgiveness.
Forgive me.
Go fuck yourself.
What?
Go fuck yourself!
Well. Nikolay Nesterovich.
start talking.
Could you be more specific as to what
I am supposed to talk about?
I see.
You need a guiding question
to give us a detailed answer. Alright.
Do you admit to working on
the development of a new virus
with the goal of causing
a deadly epidemic in the country?
Listen to me.
I already explained everything
to your colleague. Detective Klimovich.
That this is all a terrible mistake.
That's not right.
It's just the opposite.
I... you might say...
I work to protect our Motherland
from epidemics.
We research existing viruses and
look for new ones. to make vaccines.
Vaccines.
I'm sorry.
I just don't understand
why no one believes me.
Alright.
let's not waste time.
mine or yours.
Take off your pants.
What?
Your pants.
Why?
Just take them off. professor.
I am asking you to take them off.
And I'm telling you
that I can't take them off.
I don't have any underwear.
My cellmates took it away.
No. Don't do it.
No reason to be shy.
Wait. wait.
No. no. no.
I beg you. please. don't.
Don't. don't!
Please. good man!
I beg you. don't!
It's embarrassing!
Nikolay Nesterovich...
was the epidemic your idea.
or do you work for someone?
I'll tell you everything!
Don't hit me anymore!
What do you think. Captain?
Why do they always insist
that they're innocent?
Well. I guess they want
to avoid taking responsibility.
You seem like a smart guy.
but you don't know fuck all
about dialectics.
Remember this:
They insist that they are innocent.
because they really are innocent.
The people we interrogate aren't
really terrorists. spies or saboteurs.
But there is a reason
why they end up here. with us.
Because they are all
unreliable elements.
For many reasons.
Some have questionable backgrounds.
Others had their relatives repressed.
They disowned them.
but still hold a grudge.
Some are actually Polish.
Or German.
Which means a soon-to-be spy.
Some of them
just don't love the Motherland.
Yes. there are people like that.
They just don't. and that's that.
It's incredible how many
of these unreliables there are.
It's very dangerous.
You know the times we're living in.
The country is surrounded
by enemies. war is inevitable.
How will these unreliable elements
behave when it starts?
Yes. they're innocent right now.
But they will be guilty later on.
We can't just sit and wait
for that to happen.
For them to turn into traitors.
spies. terrorists. saboteurs...
It will be too late.
That is why we lock them up
and execute them.
Today. Now.
Beforehand.
It's called "preventative action
against potential enemies".
That is the work you and I are doing.
So you're saying...
that we force them to confess to things
they haven't done or didn't plan to do?
Use your head.
We can't just lock them up
or execute them for no reason.
That's illegal.
We live in a rule-of-law state.
so every punishment must have a crime.
Got it?
13 Literatorov Street.
11 Khalturin Street.
27 Rosa Luxemburg Street.
23 Bolshaya Pushkarskaya Street.
Major. sir...
These are addresses
of the people in the folder.
and their relatives' addresses and
workplaces. 98 of them.
We are understaffed.
Guschin and Yamagulov take the south.
Tupikin and Lemeshko take the center.
Zverev and I take the island.
Lyakhovsky takes the phone.
- Yes sir!
We have to do it randomly.
But why didn't you call us?
Why would I?
One of your men came here.
I thought it was just a new procedure.
offering apologies to the relatives
of people executed by mistake.
The man who came here is an enemy.
A foreign spy.
Everything he said was designed
to discredit our authorities.
This document is fake.
So my father wasn't executed?
I don't have that information.
Contact the Department.
Do you sleep here?
- I live here.
After my father's arrest.
I was fired from the hospital.
and lost my apartment.
But I was allowed
to work here part time.
and live here.
So you are a doctor?
I used to be.
General practitioner.
Sergeant. wait outside.
Get dressed.
Does anything come out when you cough?
What do you mean?
Blood. for instance.
Why do you ask?
You have a serious lung disorder.
Can't you just recommend some pills?
What pills. Major?
Let me tell you why I'm here. ma'am.
Your husband. Genrich Steiner.
an accountant in Electrosetstroy.
was convicted
under Article 58. subclause 6.
as a German spy and shot.
Sugar.
The thing is.
the only evidence used in the case
against him was his nationality.
He incriminated himself
under harsh pressure.
He wasn't guilty.
He wasn't an enemy or a spy.
I came here to apologize...
Forgive me. please.
It can't always be 58.
It can happen only once.
Sometimes it's like a snake:
slithering up the apple tree.
between icy crusts.
where it settles in.
Like in winter. you know?
When they come and fall in January.
with sounds. rebounds.
not staying on the ground.
they fly back upwards.
And if you want to catch them.
you must run in the opposite direction.
To the left. only to the left.
Because there's nowhere to turn.
Jumping on the train is a pain. though.
If you miss it. you're done.
It's like a perch. drags you down
and lets you go. flow...
then it doesn't.
Or like knitting. to stretch and fetch.
not torn or shorn.
All you can do is give in
and not cry because he doesn't like it.
He won't wipe your tears
with his feared weird beard.
And motherwort is the last resort.
it doesn't help. in fact.
it's a foe below.
a month for it to stew
and brew and fucking unscrew...
Why would I need that?
I don't need it at all.
I am not a bee.
I am not a quail.
I didn't ask you to chase me.
Do me a favor.
drink the tea before it gets cold.
Where is Ignaty Alexeevich?
End of the hall on the right.
Ignaty Alexeevich?
Yes.
How may I help you?
I've been ordered
to inform you that your son.
Alexey Chinilin.
was sentenced to death
on the charge of membership in a
secret terrorist student organization.
Pardon me. but I don't have a son.
I officially disowned Alexey.
I am ashamed
to share a surname with him.
My only regret
is that I didn't see him executed.
I would have done it myself.
had they allowed it.
Remember Gogol?
"I brought you into this world.
I can take you out."
An enemy.
Glad his mother
didn't live to see this.
Your son was subjected
to special interrogation methods.
He confessed his guilt under pressure.
He incriminated himself.
He wasn't guilty.
That's impossible.
If he confessed. then he was guilty.
How could it be otherwise?
Our law enforcement agencies
are the best in the world.
We do not execute innocents.
So. did I pass your test?
You can't trick me.
I have lived through four party purges.
I understand.
This is not a test.
What do you mean?
I just wanted to tell you that your son
was innocent.
I know it won't change anything.
but here...
I want to apologize.
Forgive me. Please.
Thank you.
My dear boy.
You have no idea
what this means to me.
I didn't know anything about my son.
They told me he was a traitor.
and I believed them.
I shouldn't have.
Sit down. lad.
Sit down.
I'll make you a cup of tea.
and fetch some crackers.
Wait a minute.
Tea and crackers...
So. do you forgive me?
Of course. my lad. of course.
How could I not?!
Comrades.
allow me to introduce Mikhail Nazarov.
Some call him Uncle Misha.
some call him Bullet.
Because he never spends
more than one bullet per enemy.
In short.
I give you a legend of a man.
A legend?
That's exaggerating.
Go on. Uncle Misha. tell us:
what is your daily output?
It varies.
Last year. I sometimes did 40 per day.
This year. maybe 20. 25.
And you say you're not a legend!
You're as humble as a bullet.
Alright. enough talking.
Let's get to work.
Switch on the silencer.
Bring them out.
Stand here. That's right.
See how precisely he works?
One shot. one dead enemy.
You think it's easy?
Come on. Major. sir.
It's not hard if you've got experience.
The main trick to this
is positioning the prisoner
the right way.
and aiming at the proper angle.
To put them down with one shot.
This saves both time and ammunition.
So. who wants to try?
Veretennikov.
Try it.
Come on!
You aren't aiming properly.
Aim at base of the skull
so the bullet goes through
the soft tissue into the brain.
I can't.
Arm cramp.
Do it.
Fire!
Good job.
Put him down with one shot.
But you are not made for this job.
You're too sensitive.
Go back to the boys.
Good job.
Go on.
So. who else wants to try?
Yes. yes.
That's right. Don't worry.
He isn't going anywhere.
Ah. the address. Yes.
19 Aptekarsky Prospect.
Alright. we're waiting for you.
Come by. we're waiting.
So. then...
Captain Fyodor Volkonogov...
You thought I would fall
for your tricks. traitor?
You picked the wrong man.
They'll be here for you soon.
Your son...
What about him?
He asked me to tell you...
What?
Before he was shot...
He...
What did he say?
He said...
Why are you here?
Just standing.
Hands!
Face the...
Come here.
Everyone come out!
Stand here!
Face the closet! Hands!
Hands up!
Face the closet! Everybody!
Don't move!
Stop! Stop!
Face the closet! Hands up!
Hands up!
Nobody move.
Untie my hands.
and no funny business.
Shit.
I'm sorry.
Please untie me.
- Yes.
But be careful!
Comrades. please open the door.
We were watching a TV broadcast
when the man came in.
He went to see Ignaty Alexeevich.
They spoke. and then Ignaty Alexeevich
hit him on the head
with the telephone.
Then we tied him up and called you.
Ignaty Alexeevich stood guard
over him. but then the man
regained consciousness
and headbutted him hard.
Ignaty Alexeevich staggered
and fell unconscious.
While still tied up.
this man managed to grab his Mauser...
His pistol.
- Yes.
He threatened to kill us
and ordered us to untie him.
Stepan Dmitrievich tried to.
but took an accidental shot to the hip.
Margarita Ilyinichna finally
managed to untie the knots...
Sir. there's a call for you.
He asked for the man in charge.
Major Golovnya here.
This is Captain Volkonogov.
Still coughing. Major?
What do you want. Captain?
Are you giving up?
Not yet.
Then why are you calling?
It's not working out for you. huh?
Not for me. either.
Captain. I don't get it.
are you totally fucked in the head?
Why are you bothering these people?
I need to get forgiveness.
What do you mean. forgiveness?
I want to go to heaven.
Fuck...
Listen.
if you had to confess to everything
you'd done during your work.
what would you say?
I have nothing to confess.
I serve my country.
That just won't work there.
Where is there?
I've got to go.
One sec.
PERSONAL FILE OF PRISONER
A. S. LEPENDINA
Lependin?
Lependin!
Where did you come from?
Where did you come from? You're great!
Let's do it!
More!
Fuck. you're a strong guy!
Strong! A strong guy.
So. let's drink to justice?
You're a good guy.
Here's to good people!
- Yes.
To you.
Nah. not to me.
I'm a fucker.
Why?
Because.
Got my wife locked up.
All because of a joke.
A stupid. not funny joke.
What was the joke?
About a camel.
A camel goes
to a law enforcement office
and says:
"Arrest me."
So they ask him...
"Why?"
And the camel answers:
"Cuz I spit on you!"
That's all.
You think it's funny?
Think it's funny?
She laughed at it.
Then she told it at the market.
Someone snitched on her.
So...
Later. they said...
Later. they said she was a member
of a counterrevolutionary group.
Where the fuck did they get that from?
A "counterrevolutionary group"?
Your wife...
She...
She was...
Your wife was subjected to
special methods.
That's why she incriminated herself.
You understand?
And that's why she was executed.
You see?
Here. look.
Take it.
Forgive me.
Just say it. Let it go.
Just say: "I forgive you".
Egor.
Forgive me and you'll feel better.
How about another joke?
A funny one.
"Two alcoholics meet up..."
Get another bottle
and I'll forgive you.
CLOSED FOR BREAK
What's that?
- Where?
Give it to me. please.
Look!
It's about to crash!
It's a dirigible.
Get out.
Since you're an old friend.
I will give you another 24 hours.
Got it?
Valery.
Please don't let me down.
You know I'd hate to have you shot.
We've killed everyone.
There's nobody to do the work.
Field. oh. field
Wide field
Oh. field
Golovnya speaking.
Put me through to Colonel Zhiharev.
Where is number 14?
At the end. on the left.
Where's Lidya Khoroshkovskaya?
Mommy's at work until late.
What are you doing?
It's Daddy's stuff.
But I can't call it Daddy's anymore.
Mom said.
"A traitor can't be a daddy."
Do you have a good memory?
Yes. I know all the capitals
of our republics by heart.
Russia: Moscow.
Ukraine: Kiev. Belorussia: Minsk.
Tajikistan: Stalinabad.
Kyrgyzstan: Frunze. Georgia: Tbilisi.
Armenia: Yerevan.
Azerbaijan: Baku.
Uzbekistan: Tashkent.
Kazakhstan: Alma-Ata.
Well done.
I have to tell you something
about your dad.
Remember it and tell your mom.
Was he executed?
Yes.
At school
they said enemies are executed.
He's not an enemy.
How?
How do you know?
I know.
He was subjected
to special methods of interrogation.
That's why he confessed.
He's not an enemy.
It was a mistake.
Give this to your mom.
I'm sorry about what...
happened to your dad.
What are "special methods"?
Well. it's when they
force a person to say what they want.
Did you torture him?
Well. yes...
We did.
Fascists tortured him
during the war in Spain.
He didn't tell them anything.
but he told you.
Did you torture him
better than the fascists?
Do you torture everyone?
Not everyone.
It's just...
some people...
- “Khabarov.
dispatcher at the commercial port.”
realize how...
- “Chibalitskaya.
gatekeeper of the Polish cemetery.”
how it all works.
"Babayeva..."
- Others resist.
They're tortured.
Why do they resist?
Sign and just... go to sleep.
Nobody will lay a finger on you.
Nobody is going to forgive you.
SEALED
DO NOT OPEN
Next.
Turn left.
Half a step back.
Next.
Yes?
Where are they?
Here.
We arrested everyone
at the addresses in your folder.
There's no one left
to ask for forgiveness.
Captain. turn yourself in.
I'm waiting.
No fucking heaven for you.
Comrade. do you have
enemies of the state in your family?
Heel.
- Comrades.
Do you have enemies of the state
in your family?
Don't touch me.
Comrades.
Do any families
of enemies of the state live here?
I need to speak with you.
Were anyone's relatives
convicted under article 58?
Espionage. Treason. Terrorism.
Sabotage. Anti-Soviet propaganda.
I need to speak with you.
Please!
Please. just fucking speak to me!
I really need to talk to you!
Somebody!
I'm begging you!
Do any families
of enemies of the state live here?
Were anyone's relatives
convicted under article 58?
Espionage.
Treason.
Terrorism. Wrecking.
Anti-Soviet propaganda.
Criminal intentions.
Sabotage.
Please! I need to speak with you.
Just talk.
Fuck.
Please! Just speak to me!
Young man! Young man!
Come on. Let's go.
Come with me.
A good. well-educated woman...
After her daughter was arrested...
Well. you know what an arrested daughter
means. Nina Ivanovna...
She only left her room at night.
Some people would spit on her.
some insulted her.
So she moved to the attic.
She's been up there for a month.
A human can't survive without food
for a month.
You're on your own from here.
I can't.
Because... because...
There's no polite synonym for it.
There's only one word for me:
"coward".
It's like "bread".
Congrats. captain.
You're a lucky bastard.
Well. goodbye. Fyodor.
We won't see each other again.
Freeze!
There he is!
Stop! Stop!
Don't shoot.
If you shoot me now.
I'll go straight to heaven.
Do you really believe that. Captain?
"Believe..."
Sort of a vague word...
I just...
feel like...
I don't belong...
there.
Fuck.
Thanks.
Get out.
.